readme.md, before:

# Speckle Server v1
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/74043433.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/74043433) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/xo9uun3wdo5x8538?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/SpeckleWorks/speckleserver) ![Discourse status](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/discourse.speckle.works/status.svg) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/speckleworks/speckleserver.svg) ![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/speckle_works.svg) 


This is the Speckle Server, which coordinates communications between the various bits of the Speckle ecosystem.




⚠️ **IMPORTANT** ⚠️

Speckle 2.0 is in the works, 👉 [check it out here](https://github.com/specklesystems)!
Speckle 1.0 is currently in LTS (lifetime support), read more about the announcemnt [here](https://speckle.systems/blog/speckle2-vision-and-faq) and [here](https://speckle.systems/blog/insider-speckle2).




## API

[API docs are here](https://speckleworks.github.io/SpeckleSpecs/) - they are a good overview of what you can do.

## Installation

The Speckle Server is a nodejs (`v.8+`, `latest stable` preffered) app.

- Dependencies: [mongodb](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/community) and [redis](https://redis.io/). 
- Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/speckleworks/SpeckleServer.git`
- Configuration: create a `.env` using `.env-base` as a template, and fill in the required information.
- Run `npm install` and thereafter `npm run`.


#### ⚠️ **Warning**: if these instructions seem confusing and you want to use speckle in production, please consult someone with more experience! Incorrect configuration can have **security and reliability implications**. 

> Community supported instructions by on how to set up a development server (thanks @arendvw!) can be found in [this discourse thread](https://discourse.speckle.works/t/speckle-server-debian-9-installation-notes-for-development-machines/344). Feel free to contribute your own experiences there, or ask questions.

#### 🍰 If you just want to try out speckle, at your own risk, you can use `https://hestia.speckle.works/api`.

**Note**: hestia is hosted on Digital Ocean. If you want to signup to digital ocean and support the running costs of speckle, use [the following affiliate link](https://m.do.co/c/947a2b5d7dc1) to get $100 in credit. 

To install a front-end plugin, such as the [admin ui](https://github.com/speckleworks/SpeckleAdmin), clone the respective repo in the `plugins` folder of the server.

#### Deploy to Heroku

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

**Note**: this doesn't include any front-end plugins, so you'll need to interact with a Heroku-hosted server via another front-end, such as https://app.speckle.systems.

### Deploy at Arup

If you have write access to this repository then you can trigger a deploy to the Staging Environment.

Steps for deploy are:

1. Select Actions Tab
2. Select `Deploy to staging Environment` workflow
3. Press the `Run Workflow` button
4. Select the `Master` branch
5. Input the tag to deploy in the `tag to deploy (without the v)` input box e.g. `1.9.10`
6. Input the branch of the ansible scripts you want to run in the `branch of the global-speckle-server-ansible-playbooks repos` input box e.g. `master`
7. Press the `Run Workflow` button
8. Verify workflow was a success 🎉️
9. See the artefacts attached to the workflow for logs of any errors

![deploy to staging](./docs/deploy-speckle-server.gif)

## Get In Touch

If you have any questions, you can get in touch with the rest of the world-wide specklers via: 
- [Discourse](https://discourse.speckle.works)
- [Slack](https://slacker.speckle.works)

## License
[MIT](https://github.com/speckleworks/SpeckleServer/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

migrate deployment pipeline to actions

readme.md, after:

# Speckle Server v1
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/74043433.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/74043433) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/xo9uun3wdo5x8538?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/SpeckleWorks/speckleserver) ![Discourse status](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/discourse.speckle.works/status.svg) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/speckleworks/speckleserver.svg) ![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/speckle_works.svg) 


This is the Speckle Server, which coordinates communications between the various bits of the Speckle ecosystem.




⚠️ **IMPORTANT** ⚠️

Speckle 2.0 is in the works, 👉 [check it out here](https://github.com/specklesystems)!
Speckle 1.0 is currently in LTS (lifetime support), read more about the announcemnt [here](https://speckle.systems/blog/speckle2-vision-and-faq) and [here](https://speckle.systems/blog/insider-speckle2).




## API

[API docs are here](https://speckleworks.github.io/SpeckleSpecs/) - they are a good overview of what you can do.

## Installation

The Speckle Server is a nodejs (`v.8+`, `latest stable` preffered) app.

- Dependencies: [mongodb](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/community) and [redis](https://redis.io/). 
- Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/speckleworks/SpeckleServer.git`
- Configuration: create a `.env` using `.env-base` as a template, and fill in the required information.
- Run `npm install` and thereafter `npm run`.


#### ⚠️ **Warning**: if these instructions seem confusing and you want to use speckle in production, please consult someone with more experience! Incorrect configuration can have **security and reliability implications**. 

> Community supported instructions by on how to set up a development server (thanks @arendvw!) can be found in [this discourse thread](https://discourse.speckle.works/t/speckle-server-debian-9-installation-notes-for-development-machines/344). Feel free to contribute your own experiences there, or ask questions.

#### 🍰 If you just want to try out speckle, at your own risk, you can use `https://hestia.speckle.works/api`.

**Note**: hestia is hosted on Digital Ocean. If you want to signup to digital ocean and support the running costs of speckle, use [the following affiliate link](https://m.do.co/c/947a2b5d7dc1) to get $100 in credit. 

To install a front-end plugin, such as the [admin ui](https://github.com/speckleworks/SpeckleAdmin), clone the respective repo in the `plugins` folder of the server.

#### Deploy to Heroku

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

**Note**: this doesn't include any front-end plugins, so you'll need to interact with a Heroku-hosted server via another front-end, such as https://app.speckle.systems.

### Deploy at Arup

#### Staging Environment

If you have write access to this repository then you can trigger a deploy to the Staging Environment.

Steps for deploy are:

1. Select Actions Tab
2. Select `Deploy to staging Environment` workflow
3. Press the `Run Workflow` button
4. Select the `Master` branch
5. Input the tag to deploy in the `tag to deploy (without the v)` input box e.g. `1.9.10`
6. Input the branch of the ansible scripts you want to run in the `branch of the global-speckle-server-ansible-playbooks repos` input box e.g. `master`
7. Press the `Run Workflow` button
8. Verify workflow was a success 🎉️
9. See the artefacts attached to the workflow for logs of any errors

![deploy to staging](./docs/deploy-speckle-server.gif)

#### Production Environment

1. Select Actions Tab
2. Select `Deploy to Production Environment` workflow
3. Press the `Run Workflow` button
4. Select the `Master` branch
5. Input the tag to deploy in the `tag to deploy (without the v)` input box e.g. `1.9.10`
6. Input the region you want to deploy to in `The region to deploy to ireland, hongkong, australia, uk or canada` input box e.g. `ireland`
6. Input the branch of the ansible scripts you want to run in the `branch of the global-speckle-server-ansible-playbooks repos` input box e.g. `master`
7. Press the `Run Workflow` button
8. Verify workflow was a success 🎉️
9. See the artefacts attached to the workflow for logs of any errors

## Get In Touch

If you have any questions, you can get in touch with the rest of the world-wide specklers via: 
- [Discourse](https://discourse.speckle.works)
- [Slack](https://slacker.speckle.works)

## License
[MIT](https://github.com/speckleworks/SpeckleServer/blob/master/LICENSE)
